.. _features:

Features
========

Artemis includes:

 - subdomain scan using ``crt.sh`` and ``gau`` (https://github.com/lc/gau),
 - Shodan integration (to use it, you will need to provide the ``SHODAN_API_KEY``
   configuration variable, see :doc:`user-guide/configuration`),
 - brute-forcing of interesting paths (e.g. ``.env``),
 - brute-forcing of easy WordPress/MySQL/PostgreSQL/FTP passwords,
 - email configuration verification (misconfigured SPF/DMARC, open relays),
 - Wordpress/Joomla/Drupal/WordPress plugin version check,
 - a check for VCS folders (e.g. ``.git``),
 - a check for enabled directory index,
 - port scanning,
 - metrics export for Prometheus (including data such as number of processed or crashed tasks): http://127.0.0.1:5000/metrics
 - easy extensibility via plug-and-play modules,
 - easy :doc:`integration of a new tool<user-guide/writing-a-module>`,
 - HTTP API to facilitate integration with other tools.

Artemis is able to **automatically generate reports containing findings description** (to do that,
please refer to :ref:`generating-reports`).

Besides, the additional modules repository (https://github.com/CERT-Polska/Artemis-modules-extra/) includes:

 - SQL injection check,
 - subdomain takeover check,
 - SSL configuration check.

.. _rate-limiting:

Rate limiting
-------------

It is possible to rate-limit the scanning. This feature is disabled by default. To enable that behavior, configure the following variables:

 - set ``LOCK_SCANNED_TARGETS`` to ``True`` to enable locking - if it is enabled, Artemis will make sure that no more than one module scans a given host at one time,
 - ``REQUESTS_PER_SECOND`` - e.g. when set to 0.5, Artemis will strive to make no more than
   one HTTP/MySQL connect/... request per two seconds for any IP from each module,
 - ``SCANNING_PACKETS_PER_SECOND`` - this configures the port scanning speed. For example, when set to 5, Artemis will strive to send no more than
   5 port scanning packets per seconds to any IP.

For CERT PL scans, the settings are:

 - ``LOCK_SCANNED_TARGETS=True``
 - ``REQUESTS_PER_SECOND=1``
 - ``SCANNING_PACKETS_PER_SECOND=5``

The limits work on a best-effort basis - due to the way this behavior is implemented, we cannot guarantee that a host
will never receive more than ``REQUESTS_PER_SECOND`` requests per second.

REST API
--------

REST API documentation is auto-generated by the FastAPI framework in the form of
Swagger and is available at your Artemis instance under ``/docs`` URL.
