.. _generating-e-mails:

Generating e-mails to be sent
=============================
Artemis can generate e-mail reports containing a description of found vulnerabilities. An
example report can be found in the :ref:`generating-e-mails-example-report` section.

These reports won't contain everything found by Artemis - custom logic (residing in
``artemis/reporting/modules/``) will make an educated guess whether a vulnerability
is a true positive and interesting enough to be reported.

To generate such reports, you first need to start Artemis and scan some targets, as described in :doc:`quick-start`.

Then, use:

``./scripts/export_emails``

This script will produce **text messages ready to be sent**.

You may translate the reports using the ``--language`` option. If your language is not
supported or you want to edit the translations, please refer to
:doc:`user-guide/translating-report-messages`.

Besides the messages, the script will also produce a JSON file with vulnerability data, a
jinja2 template and a .po translation file - using these three files you can build the messages
yourself.

.. note ::
   Please keep in mind that the reporting script resolves domains and performs HTTP requests.

To view additional options, use ``./scripts/export_emails --help`` - for example, you will be able to change
language, filter reports by tag or skip sending messages that have already been sent.


Blocklist
^^^^^^^^^
You may exclude some domains from  being included in the messages (this doesn't influence the scanning). To
do that, use the ``--blocklist BLOCKLIST_FILE`` option. The blocklist file is a ``yaml`` file with the following syntax:

.. code-block:: yaml

    - domain: the domain to be filtered
      until: null or a date (YYYY-MM-DD) until which the filter will be active
      report_type: null (which will block all reports) or a string containing
         the type of reports that will be blocked (e.g. "misconfigured_email")

There may be multiple entries in a blocklist file, each with syntax described above.

.. _generating-e-mails-example-report:

Example vulnerability report generated by Artemis
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

.. highlights::

  1. The following addresses contain version control system data:

    - https://subdomain1.example.com:443/.git/

    Making a code repository public may allow an attacker to learn the inner workings of a system, and if it contains passwords or
    API keys - also gain unautorized access. Such data shouldn’t be publicly available.

  2. The following addresses contain old Joomla versions:

    - https://subdomain2.example.com:443 - Joomla 2.5.4

    If a site is no longer used, we recommend shutting it down to eliminate the risk of exploitation of known vulnerabilities in older
    Joomla versions. Otherwise, we recommend regular Joomla core and plugin updates.

  3. The following domains don't have properly configured e-mail sender verification mechanisms:

    - example.com: Valid SPF record not found
    - example.com: Valid DMARC record not found

    Such configuration may allow an attacker to send spoofed e-mail messages from these domains.
